The following files are found in this directory:

README --  this file.
acronyms -- program to read and substitute acronyms; Chapter 7 & 8.   
awkro -- acronym processor from Chapter 8.
bitmap.awk -- awk script that demonstrates multi-dimensional arrays; Chapter 8.
contrib/ -- subdirectory containing programs from Chapter 12.
contrib2/ -- subdirectory containing additional contributed programs.
date-month -- convert numeric month to name of month; Chapter 8.
do.outline.awk -- awk script to create numbered outline.
do.outline.sed -- sed script to extract outline from document; Chapter 4.
factorial -- program to derive factorials; Chapter 8.
filesum -- program to list size of files in directory; Chapter 7.  
getmac -- program for extracting troff macro definitions; Chapter 4.
glossary -- sample glossary file for lookup program.
grades.awk -- script to average student grades; Chapter 8.
gres -- sed script for command line substitution command; Chapter 3.
index.edit -- sed script for correcting index entries; Chapter 5.
index/ -- subdirectory that contains index programs in Chapter 11.
invoke -- nawk menu-based command generator; Chapter 10.
lookup -- program to read glossary file and print definition; Chapter 8.
lotto  -- quick-pick lottery program; Chapter 9.
match -- nawk program that outputs string matched by regular expresssion; Chapter 9.
phone -- nawk program that looks up phone number; Chapter 8.
phones.data -- data file for phone program.
phrase -- sed script to match more than one word over more than one line; Chapter 6.
romanum -- decimal to Roman numeral conversion; Chapter 8.
runsed -- shell script to invoke sed; Chapter 4.
sedman -- sed script to strip nroff'd man pages; Chapter 5. 
soelim.awk -- nawk script that simulates soelim program; Chapter 10.
spellcheck -- shell script that involves spellcheck.awk; Chapter 11.
spellcheck.awk -- nawk script for interactive spellchecker; Chapter 11.
words -- awk program for stripping macros prior to word count; Chapter 10.
